---
subtitle: |
  []{#_af80tl7prv5v .anchor}**7^th^ January 2025**

  []{#_nhcy8rpxthcf .anchor}
title: "[]{#_5x0d5h95i329 .anchor}**Vulnerability Assessment Report**"
---

# System Description

The server hardware consists of a powerful CPU processor and 128GB of
memory. It runs on the latest version of Linux operating system and
hosts a MySQL database management system. It is configured with a stable
network connection using IPv4 addresses and interacts with other servers
on the network. Security measures include SSL/TLS encrypted connections.

# Scope

The scope of this vulnerability assessment relates to the current access
controls of the system. The assessment will cover a period of three
months, from June 20XX to August 20XX. [[NIST SP 800-30 Rev.
1]{.underline}](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pRpdpQMEWskxSkwqEMv8W7A7x8GXQlcn0hEcDzWet3Y/template/preview?usp=sharing&resourcekey=0-3GRRWAd8HryVgof-Jc33yA)
is used to guide the risk analysis of the information system.

# Purpose

Consider the following questions to help you write:

-   *How is the database server valuable to the business?*

-   *Why is it important for the business to secure the data on the
    > server?*

-   *How might the server impact the business if it were disabled?*

*MySQL database server, which plays a critical role in storing and
managing sensitive business data. As a high-performance system that
interacts with other networked servers, any compromise could
significantly disrupt business operations and lead to potential data
breaches. Securing the data on this server is essential to maintaining
customer trust, business continuity, and compliance with industry
standards.*

# Risk Assessment

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Threat         **Threat event**            **Likelihood**   **Severity**   **Risk**
  source**                                                                     
  ---------------- --------------------------- ---------------- -------------- ----------
  *Competitor*     *Obtain sensitive           *1*              *3*            *3*
                   information via                                             
                   exfiltration*                                               

  *System          *An internal admin could    *2*              *3*            *6*
  Administrator*   unintentionally                                             
                   misconfigure access                                         
                   controls or maliciously                                     
                   access sensitive data.*                                     

  *Hacker*         *External attackers may     *3*              *3*            *9*
                   attempt to exploit                                          
                   vulnerabilities in the                                      
                   server or gain unauthorized                                 
                   access via network                                          
                   exposure.*                                                  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Approach

A competitor can intentionally cause harm to their competition in order
to gain an advantage. A privileged user, such as a system administrator,
poses a risk due to their elevated access and potential for accidental
or intentional misuse. External hackers or advanced persistent threats
represent a constant danger to network-connected systems, especially
those storing valuable data.

# Remediation Strategy

To mitigate the identified risks, several layered security controls
should be implemented. Applying the **principle of least privilege**
will limit administrative access, reducing the risk of insider misuse or
accidental misconfiguration. Using **multi-factor authentication (MFA)**
for all privileged and remote access will help prevent unauthorized
entry by external attackers. Implementing **defense in depth**,
including host-based firewalls and intrusion detection systems, will add
multiple barriers to exploitation. Finally, adopting the **AAA
framework** ensures proper logging and auditing of all access events,
helping detect and deter malicious behavior before it causes harm.
